                                What is the LaTeX product?

LaTeX - A document preparation system:

LaTeX  is a high-quality typesetting system. It includes features
designed for the production of technical and scientific documentation. 
LaTeX is the de facto standard for the communication and publication of scientific documents. 
It is most often used for medium-to-large technical or scientific documents
but it can be used for almost any form of publishing.
LaTeX is not a word processor! Instead,
LaTeX encourages authors not to worry too much about the appearance of their documents
but to concentrate on getting the right content.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
LaTeX Features:

-Typesetting journal articles, technical reports, books, and slide presentations.
-Control over large documents containing sectioning, cross-references, tables and figures.
-Typesetting of complex mathematical formulas.
-Advanced typesetting of mathematics with AMS-LaTeX.
-Automatic generation of bibliographies and indexes.
-Multi-lingual typesetting.
-Inclusion of artwork, and process or spot colour.
-Using PostScript or Metafont fonts.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
The purpose of the LaTeX document structure:

The main point of writing a text is to convey ideas, information, or knowledge to the reader.
The reader will understand the text better if these ideas are well-structured,
and will see and feel this structure much better if the typographical form
reflects the logical and semantic structure of the content.
LaTeX is different from other typesetting systems in that you just
have to tell it the logical and semantical structure of a text.
It then derives the typographical form of the text according to the rules given in the
document class file and in various style files.
LaTeX allows users to structure their documents with a variety of hierarchical constructs
including chapters, sections, subsections and paragraphs.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
LaTeX document structure:

When LaTeX processes an input file, it expects it to follow a certain structure.
Thus every input file must contain the commands:
                                \documentclass{...}
                                
                                \begin{document}
                                ...
                                \end{document}
The area between \documentclass{...} and \begin{document} is called the preamble.
It normally contains commands that affect the entire document.
After the preamble, the text of your document is enclosed between
two commands which identify the beginning and end of the actual document:
                                \begin{document}
                                ...
                                \end{document}
You would put your text where the dots are.
The reason for marking off the beginning of your text is that LaTeX allows you
to insert extra setup specifications before it (where the blank line is in the example above: we'll be using this soon).
The reason for marking off the end of your text is to provide a place for LaTeX to be programmed to do extra stuff
automatically at the end of the document, like making an index.

A useful side-effect of marking the end of the document text is that you can store comments or
temporary text underneath the \end{document} in the knowledge that LaTeX will never try to typeset them:
                                \end{document}
